Forcepoint, is a Raytheon and Vista Equity Partners joint venture, formed in 2015 through the
merger of Websense and Raytheon Cyber Products. In 2017, Forcepoint acquired the Skyfence
CASB business from Imperva, as well as RedOwl, a vendor of User and Entity Behavior
Analytics (UEBA).
SOLUTIONS
Forcepoint’s APT solution, Forcepoint Advanced Malware Detection (AMD) is a scalable,
easy-to-deploy, behavioral sandbox that identifies targeted attacks and integrates with Forcepoint
Web Security, Forcepoint Email Security, Forcepoint CASB, and Forcepoint Next Generation
Firewall products. Forcepoint partners with Lastline, a sandbox technology vendor, to provide its
Forcepoint AMD capability. Forcepoint AMD is available as a cloud-based solution, or as an
appliance. It provides file and email URL sandboxing, detailing forensic reporting and phishing
education. All Forcepoint products work together as part of what the vendor calls, the Human
Point System, which focuses on the intersection of human behavior analysis and data.
There are currently two types of AMD offerings:
• AMD Cloud (Previously known as Threat Protection Cloud) – is a SaaS solution that
integrates out of the box with Forcepoint Web Security, Email Security, CASB, and NGFW
products.
• AMD On Premises (Previously known as Threat Protection Appliance) – is an onpremises
appliance-based solution that integrates out of the box with Forcepoint Web
Security, Email Security, and Next Generation Firewall products.

STRENGTHS
• Forcepoint offers a broad set of integrated security solutions spanning Web, Email, DLP,
Insider Threat, Cloud Applications and firewalls, with threat intelligence that is shared and
applied across all channels.
• Forcepoint’s flexible packaging allows customers to purchase the product and features they
need, and add more advanced capabilities over time as threats and needs evolve.
• Forcepoint User and Entity Behavior Analytics (UEBA), enables security teams to
proactively monitor for high-risk behavior inside the enterprise. The security analytics
platform provides context information by fusing structured and unstructured data to identify
and disrupt malicious, compromised and negligent users.
• Forcepoint’s CASB product provides deep visibility into the usage of cloud applications like
Office 365, Google G Suite, Salesforce and others.
• Forcepoint offers its own context-aware DLP, which provides enterprise-class data theft
protection across endpoints, Web and Email gateways, as well as networked and cloud
storage. Advanced detection techniques, such as OCR (Optical Character Recognition),
‘Drip-DLP’, and encrypted payloads ensure effectiveness.

WEAKNESSES
• Forcepoint does not yet offer AMD protection for endpoints. However, the vendor has this on
the roadmap for later in 2018.
• Forcepoint needs to integrate the Forcepoint Insider Threat and Forcepoint NGFW products
with its Web Security and Email Security products, as well as with third-party solutions, as it
builds out its next generation platform vision.
• For remediation, Forcepoint solutions currently provide identification, blocking and alerts of
compromise, but do not provide malware removal or device re-imaging.
• Forcepoint needs to continue to innovate with advanced protection for malware attacks and
data theft aimed at roaming endpoints.
• Forcepoint does not provide and EDR solution. However, Forcepoint AMD can tie into third
party EDR solutions through custom integrations.
• Forcepoint needs to provide predictive, actionable threat intelligence reporting across the
entire threat lifecycle.
