Sophos provides IT and data security solutions for businesses on a worldwide basis. SophosLabs
is the R&D division behind the vendor’s advanced security, data science, and malware research.
Sophos provides synchronized security solutions, that include endpoint and mobile security,
enterprise mobility management, encryption, server protection, secure email and web gateways,
next-generation firewall and unified threat management (UTM).
SOLUTIONS
Sophos offers a set of complementary solutions for APT, which comprise: Sophos XG Firewall,
for network protection, Sophos Endpoint Protection for workstations and mobile devices, and
Sophos Labs which provides unified threat intelligence across all platforms. Sophos also offers
Intercept X, a signature-less next generation endpoint protection product (EPP) which has been
integrated into the existing endpoint protection solution. Sophos Intercept X can also be
deployed alongside competing AV products

Sophos XG Firewall - is an integrated network security system that combines a next-gen
firewall and IPS with web, email, remote access, and wireless security functionality. It includes
Advanced Threat Protection through:
o Sandboxing – which analyzes and “detonates” suspicious content in a safe, cloud-based
environment to identify and block previously unseen threats.
o Suspicious traffic detection – which identifies when an endpoint is trying to communicate
with a malicious server. Once detected, the firewall blocks the traffic and notifies the
administrator. This lets organizations detect the presence of compromised endpoints and
prevent attacks from spreading, ex-filtrating data, or receiving commands.
Intrusion Prevention System – which can identify and block APTs attempting to enter the
network, or move laterally across the network by exploiting vulnerabilities in servers and
systems.
Sophos Endpoint Protection – is a suite of endpoint security solutions designed to prevent,
detect, and remediate threats. It is available as a cloud-managed SaaS offering or on-premises
solution. It helps administrators reduce the attack surface through features such as application
control, device control, and web filtering. It uses an integrated system of security technologies
that correlates application behavior, website reputation, file characteristics, network activity
(including Malicious Traffic Detection), and more to identify and block exploits and previously
unseen malware. It is controlled by the Sophos System Protection (SSP), which automatically
applies the correct protection mechanisms based on the threat. Cleanup and quarantine
capabilities neutralize detected threats and help return users’ systems to a clean state. This is
supplemented by Sophos Intercept X, which provides deep learning malware detection, advanced
anti-exploit capabilities, anti-ransomware protection, and Root Cause Analysis.
Sophos Labs – is the company’s global research network, which collects, correlates, and
analyzes endpoint, network, server, email, web, and mobile threat data across Sophos’s entire
customer base. It simplifies configuration by feeding advanced threat intelligence directly into
Sophos products in the form of preconfigured settings and rules. This allows systems to be
deployed quickly without the need for dedicated, trained security staff to update and test the
configuration over time.
Sophos’ Firewall-OS (SF-OS) runs on SG Series appliances and includes synchronized security
technology, which integrates endpoint and network security for protection against advanced
threats. For instance, SF-OS Sophos SG Series Appliances can link the next-generation firewall with Sophos Endpoint Protection through its Security Heartbeat synchronized security
technology, which enables the network and endpoint to correlate health, threat, and security
indicators for prevention, detection, actionable alerting, and remediation. This provides
automated incident response that can restrict network access to endpoints on which malware has
been detected, or that have had their endpoint agent disabled. It also extends Firewall Advanced
Threat Protection so that when it sees malicious traffic from an endpoint, it can engage Endpoint
Protection to verify and clean up the infection. The SF-OS comes preinstalled on Sophos XG
Firewall Series appliances.

STRENGTHS
• Sophos synchronized security integrates Endpoint and Network security for protection
against APTs through automation of threat discovery, investigation, and response.
• Synchronized Application Control explicitly identifies all networked applications (including
APTs and malware) by sharing application information between endpoint and firewall. This
eliminates the issue with signature-based app control that often categorize the majority of app
traffic as generic HTTP or HTTPS.
• Sophos APT solutions emphasize simplicity of configuration, deployment, and management
to minimize the time and expertise required to use the solutions.
• Sophos solutions can remove malware and remnants of malware from compromised
endpoints, where other vendors may only issue an alert or temporarily block malicious code.
• Sophos offers real-time threat intelligence between the Sophos XG Firewall and Sophos
Endpoint Protection solutions for faster, more cohesive APT protection.
• Sophos Sandstorm was recently upgraded to use Deep Learning technology, which can help
detect zero-day threats faster and more accurately. Sophos Sandstorm integrates with Sophos
Firewall/Email and Web solutions.
• Sophos offers a full-featured EMM solution for iOS, Android, and Windows Phone, along
with integrated threat protection for Android. Sophos Mobile Control and Sophos UTM
combine to provide stronger security.
Sophos UTM and endpoint protection solutions are attractively priced for the mid-market.
WEAKNESSES
• While Sophos APT solutions’ forensic analysis capabilities are used within the product for
automated detection and remediation, not all the information is exposed to administrators.
• In pursuit of simplicity, Sophos solutions sometimes favor features and rule sets that are
configured automatically by SophosLabs, over providing administrators with granular, do-it yourself controls.
• Currently, Sophos’ application whitelisting is limited to servers; the company does, however,
offer category-based application control for workstations.
• Sophos does not currently offer a CASB solution, or APIs for integration with third party
CASB solutions. However the vendor has this on its near-term roadmap.
• Sophos does not currently offer a full EDR solution, however, Intercept X does offer some
capabilities, through its Root Cause Analysis feature, that are typically part of an EDR
solution.
• For remediation, Sophos currently offers capabilities to block, quarantine and remove
malware and associated remnants but it does not offer full device reimaging capabilities.
