VMware
Based in Palo Alto, California, VMware provides software solutions for cloud infrastructure and digital workspaces.
NSX is its network virtualization platform, consisting of a controller and virtual switches running in each hypervisor.
NSX creates an SDN overlay that enables communication across virtualized workloads. The NSX overlay can run on
top of any physical network underlay. Connectivity to nonvirtualized resources, like bare-metal servers or physical
appliances, is achieved through servers acting as gateways or through physical switches from certified technology
partners, which can be controlled by NSX and act as VxLAN Tunnel Endpoints (VTEPs). In 2016, VMware focused on
improving NSX manageability and operations through better correlation between the overlay and the underlay, and
also through the acquisition of Arkin Net. VMware is leveraging its strength in the virtualization market to promote
NSX, especially when clients are renewing their vSphere licenses, which resulted in a total installed base of more
than 2,400 customers and 850 production deployments. In 2016, VMware extended its virtual networking and security
to the cloud and announced a partnership with Amazon Web Services (AWS) where NSX will be a key component of
its cloud stack, enabling enterprises to move workloads from the on-premises VMware private cloud to the VMware
public cloud environment hosted by AWS.
NSX should be considered by all organizations evaluating network overlay solutions, especially existing VMware
virtualization customers that are looking to build a software-defined data center (SDDC) or a private/hybrid cloud.
Strengths
Cautions
The vendor has not achieved certification for VMware vRealize integration, which other ■ competitors have.
■ Customers have experienced challenges due to product updates, including upgrades to its fabric software, IRF.
VMware is a leader in server virtualization, and its virtual switches are widely deployed, reliable and well-known by
customers.
■
NSX is a software solution that can be easily piloted and deployed gradually, with no hardware dependencies,
although it provides integration capabilities with switches from certified NSX technology partners.
■
NSX microsegmentation leverages each vSwitch as a stateful Layer 3/Layer 4 distributed virtual firewall to
increase intra-data-center security, providing centralized control and policies.
■
VMware is a software company with solutions for infrastructure virtualization that go beyond networking. Its
ability to integrate NSX with other software platforms provides it with strong differentiation from vendors focused
solely on networking.
■
Gartner has observed that many clients find NSX expensive at scale, although in 2016, VMware introduced three
feature sets (Standard, Advanced and Enterprise) with increasing capabilities and cost to enable a more granular
selection.
■
VMware cannot provide a complete solution that includes the physical network; customers must deal with other
networking vendors to purchase hardware.
■
There are two different NSX codebases: NSX for vSphere and NSX-T for other hypervisors that customers receive
with their NSX license. Customers must choose the best fit while recognizing that NSX-T will constitute the basis
for a future unified codebase, necessitating some future software and feature changes.
