Sophos
In March 2017, Sophos acquired Invincea – a Visionary vendor in the 2017 Magic Quadrant for Endpoint
Protection Platforms – giving Sophos access to its deep learning ML algorithms.
The Sophos Intercept X product, designed to protect against and recover from the malicious actions related to
ransomware and exploits, proved popular with both existing Sophos Endpoint Protection customers and as an
augmentation to an incumbent EPP. This momentum continued its increased brand awareness in the enterprise
space.
Also included in the Intercept X purchase are Sophos' EDR-like capabilities – called Root Cause Analysis – and
the ML malware detection technology from the acquisition of Invincea was added in late 2017.
Sophos' cloud-based EPP with the Intercept-X platform is a good fit for organizations that can take advantage of
a cloud-based administration platform, and that value strong protection against ransomware and exploit-based
attacks over advanced forensic investigation capabilities.
Strengths
Intercept X clients report strong confidence in not only protecting against most ransomware, but also the
ability to roll back the changes made by a ransomware process that escapes protection.
Intercept X is available as a stand-alone agent for organizations that are unable to fully migrate from their
incumbent EPP vendor.
The exploit prevention capabilities focus on the tools, techniques and procedures that are common in many
modern attacks, such as credential theft through Mimikatz.
The Sophos Central cloud-based administration console can also manage other aspects of the vendor's
security platform, from a single console, including disk encryption, server protection, firewall, email and web
gateways.
Root Cause Analysis provides a simple workflow for case management and investigation for suspicious or
malicious events.
Root Cause Analysis capabilities are available to macOS, along with protection against cryptographic
malware.
Cautions
Although we credited Sophos for a cloud-first approach last year, it has now made parts of Intercept X
available for on-premises customers. This is likely to hamper cloud adoption and extend the time that Sophos
manages and maintains separate protection stacks.
Root Cause Analysis is not available in Intercept X for clients that use the on-premises version of Sophos
Endpoint Protection.
Sophos' primary improvement was the integration of Invincea's deep learning technology. Beyond that, there
has been little in the way of enhancements to the EDR capabilities of the Sophos Endpoint Protection platform
in the last 12 months.
Sophos does not provide vulnerability reporting; rather, it relies on its mitigation and blocking technologies, so
organizations will need to find other ways to prioritize their patch management program.
