Fortinet
Fortinet is a large network and security vendor, with more than 4,600 employees, based in Sunnyvale, California. Its main product line is the FortiGate firewall, which represented roughly 75% of its total revenue in 2016. The vendor offers other products, such as a wireless LAN (FortiAP) and web application firewall (FortiWeb). Its more recent marketing message highlights the Security Fabric concept, focused on cross-device integration to improve overall visibility and provide additional control options.
Fortinet recent news includes more models of its E Series, which benefits from the latest generation of Fortinet Security Processors (SPU). Fortinet also acquired AccelOps and rebranded it FortiSIEM. Latest releases include several features related to the Security Fabric, with traffic forwarding between Fortinet appliances, unified visibility and tighter integration with FortiClient endpoints. Fortinet also recently announced availability of FortiCASB, its firewall-attached offering for SaaS security.
Fortinet has introduced important new product functionalities and has made product and marketing strategy improvements. The vendor is a good shortlist candidate for all enterprise firewall appliance use cases, especially when price/performance is rated high in the evaluation.
Strengths
Marketing Execution: Fortinet has improved its visibility in final two vendor shortlists for enterprise firewalls, being frequently the finalist against one of the other two leaders. Surveyed channel partners acclaim Fortinet's assistance during RFP and implementation.
Sales Strategy: Fortinet excels in providing the best price/performance offers, relying on the combined use of an extensive appliance portfolio, good total cost of ownership for bundles and a flexible discount strategy. The vendor grows much faster than the market average.
Customer Experience: Fortinet's clients gives excellent scores to its firewall performance and hardware quality.
Capabilities: Customers not using centralized management tools liked the improved visibility they get from the FortiView reports. Fortinet customers also mentioned ease of deployment as a strong point.
Market Segmentation: Fortinet's latest chassis models (7000 Series) reinforce its ability to serve the performance required in large data centers.
Cautions
Product Strategy: Fortinet focuses most of its development resources on integrating its existing solutions together (Security Fabric), at the expense of other areas. The vendor's investment lags behind the competition in IaaS/SaaS and advanced threat endpoint security. Its attach rate for cloud-based sandboxing is low, and the feature has received few improvements since its first release.
Marketing Execution: Fortinet fails to move its brand out of the "good enough vendor" zone. Several of its resellers also offer products from one of the other Leaders in this Magic Quadrant and select Fortinet for its primary "fast firewall" use case. Despite a good security score in independent testing, some prospective customers with high-risk exposure still express doubts regarding Fortinet's ability to meet their security requirements.
Capabilities: Except for performance, Fortinet often comes in second in technical evaluations to one of its direct competitors when core features (IPS, VPN, management, application control, sandboxing) are heavily weighted.
Customer Experience: Fortinet does not offer the direct vendor support and premium subscriptions that large enterprise clients might require. Client feedback on support is directly impacted by the quality of the channel partner: It gets an average score. Customers also report that firmware upgrades and new features might be unequal in quality.
Management: Centralized and cloud-based management have made insufficient progress to positively influence Fortinet's score during technical evaluation.
