Sophos
Sophos remains a Leader this year because of its strong ongoing focus on enhancing advanced malware
prevention capabilities through its firewalls and endpoint platform integration. It continues to be the market
leader, offering mature and integrated management, monitoring and visibility capabilities of endpoints through a
single console of its UTM offering, which provides ease of management and better prevention against advanced
malware.
Sophos is a network and endpoint security vendor headquartered in Abingdon, U.K. Sophos’ portfolio includes
firewalls (XG Series, the older SG Series and CR series). Sophos has 19 XG models and three Remote Ethernet
Devices (RED) models, which are plug-and-play devices for small offices. It still sells its old product lines, the SG
and CR firewall Series. It also offers a number of other security solutions for endpoint security, wireless access
point (Sophos AP Series), and unified endpoint management (Sophos Mobile). Sophos Firewall Manager (SFM)
is the name of the centralized management software, and Sophos Central is the cloud-based centralized
management portal for all Sophos security products.
Recent updates include a new version 17 for XG Firewall with enhanced application control leveraging endpoint
integration, as well as an update to its Sandstorm cloud sandbox solution with integration from its nextgeneration
endpoint product (Intercept X).
Sophos is a good shortlist candidate for SMBs that are looking for multiple integrated features, such as email and
web DLP, email encryption, and a web application firewall in their firewall. Sophos is also a good candidate for
SMBs looking for strong and mature endpoint integration capabilities within their UTM solutions for ease of
management and correlation of events.

Strengths
Sales Execution: Sophos Cloud Firewall Manager is Sophos’ cloud-based centralized management solution
Sophos https://www.gartner.com/technology/media-products/newsletters/sophos/...
13 de 28 27/09/2018 22:39
for partners to manage multiple firewalls across their customer deployments free of charge. The capabilities of
Sophos Cloud Firewall Manager include a majority of the features available with the on-premises centralized
management offering, which makes it easier for a partner to manage the firewalls.
Sales Strategy: Sophos has a strong channel strategy, with a loyal channel base globally. It conducts regular
partner-training and information-sharing programs worldwide. Gartner has seen that this channel has strong
confidence in the Sophos team and its sales strategy, especially postacquisition of Cyberoam. Sophos’
presales team receives positive reviews for working directly with the clients in regions like India and the
Middle East, and is often scored high by customers.
Market Responsiveness: Sophos continues to increase the visibility, detection and response capabilities of
advanced threats to meet growing market requirement. It has also made enhancements to existing application
control features in the firewalls for better visibility and control. Sophos also acquired Barricade for improving
security analytics capabilities, and has integrated the deep learning capabilities of Invincea into its sandboxing
product Sandstorm.
Product: Sophos XG Firewalls offer multiple security features within their UTM solution that appeal to SMBs.
This includes built-in web application firewalls, DLP-based encryption for emails and strong endpoint
integration.
Customer Experience: Surveyed Sophos customers have mentioned strong firewall and endpoint integration
as the product’s biggest strength, and also have indicated high satisfaction for the malware detection rate.
This is because, in addition to traditionally managing the endpoint centrally from within the firewall UI, it has
built strong advanced threat monitoring and response capabilities, using its Security Heartbeat feature, which
is a part of its Synchronized Security system.
Capability: Sophos has strong ransomware detection capabilities and constantly works toward improving it.
Sophos shares threat and health-related intelligence between endpoints and firewalls using its Synchronized
Security feature, to correlate and identify compromised systems. This enables the firewall to automatically
isolate them to prevent the movement of ransomware. Recently, Sophos has announced Synchronized
Application Control, another feature of Synchronized Security that utilizes the endpoint to provide added
visibility into network application traffic.


Cautions
Product Strategy: Despite selling three firewall product lines, XG, SG and CR, Sophos continues to focus on
enhancing the features of the XG Series. SG and CR Series are still supported by the vendor, and Sophos
recently refreshed its SG and XG firewall series. Gartner recommends that clients carefully evaluate the
roadmap and firmware updates in case they still want to make new purchases of CR Series and SG Series,
because of product familiarity.
Customer Feedback: Gartner has noted declining customer satisfaction, particularly about ease of
deployment and management of the XG Series.
Capabilities: Sophos does not offer a dedicated SD-WAN feature and lacks dynamic, application-centric path
selection. However, it does offer limited SD-WAN-related features such as QoS, link balancing (based on
volume [weight]), sessions, protocol and a source/destination IP/port.
Capabilities: Sophos currently lacks a centralized cloud management portal for end users. It offers Sophos
Cloud Firewall Manager, which provides centralized cloud-based management only to its partners.
Customer Experience: Surveyed customers rated Sophos’ UTM solution limited in on-box reporting
capabilities. Based on customer feedback, the built-in interface of the appliance is very limited. To get better
reporting out of all the Sophos platform, customers need to use iView.
