Imperva
Imperva is in the Leaders quadrant. The vendor is one of the most visible in both the appliance and cloud WAF
service segments. Imperva frequently wins on the basis of security features and innovation. Imperva can provide
strong WAF functionality as a traditional appliance and cloud WAF service, but faces stronger competition for its
cloud offering.
Imperva is an application, database and file security vendor, with headquarters in Redwood Shores, California. Its
portfolio includes database security products (SecureSphere Data Protection and Database Audit and
CounterBreach), a WAF appliance (SecureSphere WAF), and a cloud WAF service (Incapsula). Imperva also offers
managed security services and managed SOC.
SecureSphere can be delivered as physical and virtual appliances. It is also available on AWS and Microsoft Azure
marketplaces. The vendor also offers managed rule sets for AWS WAF.
In recent months, Imperva saw changes in its executive team, including a new CEO and CFO, followed by an internal
reorganization to refocus on a cloud-first strategy. The company recently announced the acquisition of Prevoty, a
RASP vendor. The vendor continued its investment in Incapsula infrastructure with new points of presence, refreshed
some SecureSphere hardware appliances, and released Attack Analytics, a new real-time event management
solution for Imperva SecureSphere and Incapsula.
Imperva is a good shortlist candidate for all kind of organizations, especially large enterprises looking for highsecurity
WAF appliances, or organizations planning to transition their applications from on-premises to the cloud.
Cloud WAF Service: Fortinet has been late releasing a first version of a cloud WAF service, which is still
unproven, especially in its ability to avoid and mitigate false alerts. FortiWeb Cloud has more limited capabilities
than its appliance counterpart, and it lacks available peer references.
■
Organization: The vendor has a modest increase of its WAF R&D department this year. Its investment in WAF
remains less important than for other products in Fortinet’s portfolio, and is relatively small, compared with some
of its direct competitors.
■
Market Segmentation: Fortinet is not yet visible in shortlists for web-scale organizations trying to protect their
core business-critical applications, and for cloud-native web applications that heavily leverage continuous
integration.
■
Customer Experience: Some customers would like Fortinet to go one step further and unify the centralized
management for WAF and firewall. Today, you need two separate management platforms for FortiWeb and
FortiGate. They also would like better documentation in the form of “how-to,” especially on recent features, and
better change control.
■
Capabilities: FortiWeb lags behind leaders in bot mitigation. The vendor does not offer, nor does it integrate with
DDoS protection service.
■
Capabilities: FortiWeb’s machine learning does not work in high-availability deployments. In the initial version, the
UI exposes a lot of the internal mechanics behind the machine learning engine. Although it compares nicely with
other vendors’ “black box” approaches, and this helps with the credibility of the engine, which can be intimidating
and lengthen the learning curve.
■
Strengths
Cautions
Marketing Strategy: Imperva’s offers a flexible licensing for organizations with a mix of on-premises and cloudhosted
applications. It allows the vendor to target a wider range of use cases and organizations, and to better
manage the transition from WAF appliance to cloud WAF service.
■
Sales Execution: Imperva is one of the only vendors providing both WAF appliances and cloud WAF service to
achieve strong visibility in shortlists and large customer bases for both segments.
■
Customer Experience: Gartner clients using SecureSphere continue to praise customer support. They’ve noted
some improvements in Incapsula’s bot mitigation.
■
Capabilities: Incapsula and SecureSphere benefit from the shared threat intelligence ■ from ThreatRadar.
Capabilities: Imperva has recently released attack analytics to get unified and improved monitoring for
SecureSphere and Incapsula. The vendor has also made available a first version of role-based administration for
Incapsula.
■
Geographic Strategy: Imperva has strong WAF presence in most geographies, and offers effective support across
most regions. Recent presence has been especially strong in the APAC region.
■
Market Responsiveness: Imperva is experiencing a lot of organizational changes, which could be the source of a
slower pace of release, especially for the SecureSphere product line.
■
Cloud WAF Service: Customers wish that Incapsula supported single sign-on (SSO) features, such as SAML 2.0.
They also would like better and more-flexible canned reports.
■
Capabilities: Customers considering Incapsula to replace SecureSphere often notice the lack of feature parity.
The cloud WAF service cannot yet match the depth and breadth of security function covered by the appliance
product line.
■
Pricing: SeveralGartner clients cited higher-than-competitive prices for Imperva WAF SecureSphere, and to a
lesser extent for Incapsula.
■
Cloud WAF Service: Incapsula’s infrastructure does not include any point of presence in China, and its
infrastructure lags behind other cloud-native WAF services in South America and Africa.
■
Customer Experience (WAF Appliance): SecureSphere customers report that the management console remains
complex when using the more advanced capabilities. Customers frequently mentioned that deployment often
requires professional services to effectively implement the offerings at scale. They also would like to see closer
integration between Attack Analytics and the WAF management consoles, and more-unified management
capabilities between SecureSphere and Incapsula.
■
Customer Experience (Cloud WAF Service): Some customers complain about Incapsula’s limited cross-sites and
multidomain management and reporting, especially when multiple applications share the same IP address.
Surveyed customers and resellers indicated that they did not get the same quality of support for Incapsula,
compared with what they are accustomed to with Securesphere. They cite too many canned and not necessarily
helpful answers as a first response when contacting support.
■
